All right. How's everyone doing today? Cool.
Awesome. So, my name is uh Byang. I'm the CTO
and co-founder of a company called SourceCap.
Uh there might be some of you who have used our
products inside your development organizations. We
build developer tools for professional engineers
working in large complex code bases. And for those
of you who haven't heard of us, we actually serve
uh I think it's like seven of the top 10 software
engineering companies by market cap and six of
the top 10 US banks and just multitudes of
companies building software and writing code
uh across basically every industry vertical. And
today I'm here to talk about uh our journey with
uh MCP and in particular uh you know how we're
integrating the model context protocol deeply
into the fabric of our uh architecture. So our
journey actually began uh quite some time ago.
It was actually summer of last year when this
fell uh David uh at Enthroic uh maybe you've
heard of him. He's now one of the the co-creators
of MCP. he reached out and said, "Hey, uh, I heard
you you guys are doing a lot with uh, you know,
retrieval augmented code generation and fetching
the appropriate context in the context window
and getting models to perform better on coding
and technical question answering. We're working on
a thing that uh, you might find interesting." And
we're like, "Huh, that sounds interesting. What is
it?" And he was like, "It's kind of like LSP uh,
but for model context." And we're like, "Wow,
that does sound interesting." And so we started
chatting and we ended up becoming one of the early
design partners uh for the the the MCP protocol
um and and gave a lot of feedback and it was
really a privilege to work with David and the team
uh to to kind of guide the evolution of that
protocol and in in in these conversations as
we're playing more around with the protocol and
experimenting with tools in conjunction with the
uh you know developer tools that we're building
uh we soon came to this realization that holy
crap like you know AI is changing everything
but everything is about to change again. Um
and specifically we felt that uh tool
calling models in conjunction with MCP
uh was going to lead to another paradigm shift in
the standard like AI application architecture and
I think we've been through uh I would say like
three waves of AI application architecture uh so
far the first wave was sort of the co-pilot wave
where uh basically the the architecture of those
applications was dictated by the capabilities of
the first LMS that were pushed into production.
So if you go back to the ancient year of uh
2022 and remember what AI was like back then,
uh all the models then hadn't yet been tuned
to respond in a chat fashion or use tools.
They were just these kind of like text completion
models. And so all the big applications that you
saw built on top of AI followed this paradigm. You
know, the human would type some stuff and then the
model would complete the next couple of tokens and
the human would type some more. And that was kind
of the interaction paradigm. And then chat GBT
came along and that ushered in a new modality. So
uh everyone soon realized like wow like being
able to chat with this thing and make explicit
asks is really powerful. And one of the things
that we soon realized in that world was like
hey if you copy and paste relevance code snippets
into the context window and then ask it to answer
the question. It gets a lot better in terms of
quality and usefulness on production code bases.
And that's what I like to call the kind of like
rag chat era of AI. And I think you know a lot
of folks are still living uh in this world to
a certain extent but you all the folks at this
conference uh I think we are all aware that we're
kind of entering have already entered into a new
era which is the era of agents and just as the
two generations before uh this era is really being
dictated by the capabilities at the model layer
and so when we took a look at our tooling suite
that we had built so far um the more we looked
the more we realized like my gosh like the a
lot of the underlying assumptions of building on
top of LMS have changed with tool calling agents
and MCP we might have to rethink you know this
application uh from the ground up uh to to to
build truly agentically and so that's essentially
what we did we built a completely new coding agent
called AMP from the ground up uh and I'll show uh
off to you uh what it's able to do and I think the
best way to talk about um how we're uh how how
we've been building with uh the tool calling uh
models anthropics have been shipping shipping
in conjunction with the model context protocol
is to show you AMP in action and show you it
using a bunch of tools to complete tasks. So
uh this demo I think is going to be I've been
watching all the talks and I think this is this
might be the longest uh live demo of the day. So
everything that you all the prayers that you said
for Brad and other folks please uh say for me this
is a live AI demo. What we're going to do is we're
going to make a live change to AMP itself. So I
have sort of described the change I want uh in
this linear issue. Um it's simple because this is
a demo and I want to make it easy to gro. Um and
basically all we're going to do is we're going to
change the background panel of uh AMP to the color
red. I've described it in that linear issue. I've
given some instructions just as I would in like a
uh an actual linear issue that I handed off to an
engineering uh member of my team and uh I'm just
going to have it implement the issue. So implement
I'll just paste in the URL of the issue and the
first thing it does is it actually uses a linear
tool that it has provided through an MCP server
to fetch the contents of that linear issue. So the
issue that we're just looking at now the model has
access to. I didn't have to atmention it or prompt
it in any special way. It just knew to use that
tool to fetch uh that piece of context. And it's
going to do a couple more agentic steps here to
find the appropriate context within the codebase.
But I just want to point out that you know this
linear uh tool is it's not a firstparty tool. It
is actually the official linear MCP server which I
currently think is one of the best MCP servers out
there. Um the way we've implemented it is you just
plug in the the URL. Uh we actually have this uh
remote MCP proxy uh that I'll talk about a little
bit later that kind of secures the connection
and handles the the the secret exchange uh with
linear or whatever upstream service you're talking
to. Uh and that's how we're integrating uh this
capability into our coding agent. So it's going
to do a bunch more things. It's going to search
around. We'll just let it go uh for a bit. In the
meantime, I thought what we could do is talk a
little bit more about the AMP architecture and how
MCP plays into that. And I could just, you know,
share some slides about how that architecture
looks, but I thought maybe let's just use AMP to
tell you about the AMP architecture. So, here I'm
going to open up the AMP CLI. Uh, this has access
to all the same tools. It integrates MCP servers
in the same way as uh the editor integration that
you just saw. And let me just ask it, you know,
what are the main arc uh textural components of
AMP? How does MCP play into this? So, we're going
to let that run. And then while that's running, uh
I actually just became aware of this phenomenon.
I don't know u if any of you are aware that like
there's this thing people do now where they watch
like two unrelated uh YouTube videos side by side.
It's like a Gen Z thing maybe. Sometimes it's like
a Tik Tok, sometimes like free videos. I thought
like what is the coding equivalent of that that
like agents unlock? And so I was thinking, okay,
instead of playing a game or watching a video, why
don't we just make a game on the side while, uh,
we're figuring out all that other stuff out. So,
uh, let's use MCP again and say, you know, find
the linear issue about 3D flappy bird. I wrote a
very detailed spec ahead of ahead of time. Uh, and
we're going to we're going to we're going to try
to vibe code 3D Flappy Bird on the side while all
this happens. So, over here, uh, we got a pretty
detailed, uh, textual explanation of how MCP,
uh, is integrated into AMP. Um, but a picture
is worth many more words than just text. So why
don't we ask it uh can you draw a diagram showing
me how these components connect and communicate
and we'll have it do that in the meantime. Let's
check back over here to see uh how our agent is
doing. Um it's making some changes to the code
still. One of the things I want to point out
here is that another tool that it's integrating.
So it's it's using a lot of tool calls along the
way. Uh each one of these long text things is
a tool call. It's interacting with the browser.
It actually uses uh this other MCP server uh the
playright MCP server to interact with the browser
and take screenshots. And it's going to use that
as part of its feedback loop to verify that it
actually made uh the change that uh we're telling
it to make. So let me just reload the window here
to see if it's done yet. Nope. Still working
on that. Um, here. Let me actually just restart
this. Sometimes it gets confused. Uh, but the
beauty of agents is if it messes up, it's not
it's most of the times it's not worth it diving
in to see where it kind of screwed up. I just ask
it to rerun and most of the time it just works.
Uh, okay. Okay, over here. Let's take a look at
the architectural diagram that it generated
and see how MCP relates to these components.
If this were in the editor, it would just show
this. And uh the text is a little bit hard to
read, but as you can see, it's it's got the
core pieces of the the AMP architecture here.
um everything's routed through this
kind of like servers thread component
uh which talks to the MCP integration and
which in turn talks to all the services that
we're integrating through the model context
protocol. Uh so that's that's pretty cool,
right? Um streamline onboarding makes it
really easy to gro what's happening in in
a large scale codebase. Um okay, now let's
see if 3D Flappy Bird is done here. So,
it looks like it got as far as running uh
uh Python web server. So, let's go over uh
and copy this port.
All right. So, we got 3D Flappy Bird. Um that's
pretty cool. Successfully, uh wrote an app on
the side. And then let's finally check back in
on the first thing, which is did it turn the
thing red? Uh, and there we go. So, uh, while
I was explaining to you how AMP worked, AMP,
uh, use tools and MCP servers to basically make
a change to itself, explain its architecture, and
code up a miniame on on the side. Um, so yeah. Oh,
and and also it marked the linear issue as done,
which is cool. use that MCP server again. So, uh
that's just kind of a brief illustration of the
power of MCP and and the sort of results we're
getting in building this coding agent. Uh can
we go back to the slides? And we've really
incorporated MCP in a very uh deep way. So,
um one of the things about AMP's architecture
is if you look at the different components,
you know, we have an AMP client and there's an AMP
server and then there's these external services
and local tools that we want to talk to. It turns
out uh the way to effectively connect to all these
different types of tools and services uh it can be
done through MCP. So when we're talking to local
tools like playright or postgress uh that's going
over MCP or standard IO uh when we're talking
to external services uh whether it be firstparty
services like source graph or code search engine
which is really good at searching over you know
uh large scale code bases uh or other services
such as your issue tracker or your observability
tool uh that talks MCP as well and part of the
work that we've done well which I'll touch upon
in a little bit is also connect uh these MCP
connections through a way that securely handles uh
secrets and uh forwards the identity of the user
uh to the appropriate external services. One of
the things that we've realized in in building
this is that there is kind of like a new emerging
recipe for AI applications or AI agents. Um, so
just like you know, rag chat was kind of the model
for the previous era, uh, I think this is the the
rough formula for the new era. And we actually
wrote a blog post about how this is not like,
uh, arcane magic. Really, anyone can write an
agent, uh, probably in the time it takes to
listen to this talk. And so, uh, if any any of
you want try your own hand at writing a simple
coding agent, just go to that blog post and it
shows you how. But the recipe we found is you
need maybe like four things. Uh, one is you
need a really strong tool use LLM, which the
latest cloud model provides. We're really excited
about Cloud 4 cap cloud 4's capabilities. We've
been playing around with it for the past couple
weeks. Uh, all the stuff that I just demoed was
running off of Cloud4. Um, in conjunction uh
with that tool calling model, you need a way
to provide a bunch of tools. Uh, and MCP just so
happens to be the perfect solution for that. Uh,
so tool use LLM MCP. And then when it comes down
to thinking about the the actual user experience,
what we found is really important is to really
focus on the feedback loops. So as you saw with
the uh AMP agent as it was like making a change
to itself, what it was doing was it was using
the Playright MCP server to take screenshots
uh of changes it was making to the app along
the way and using those screenshots to validate
whether it was doing uh the thing it was doing.
And that change was actually pretty non-trivial
because the component hierarchy has a lot of like
containers and sometimes the change looks right
but doesn't actually change the colors uh uh in
the actual application. And so that feedback cycle
is is really essential to making agents work in
practice. Um and part of this too is if you design
the feedback loops properly um our thesis is that
the UX becomes a lot more imperative. So I think
like the previous era of AI applications there
were a lot of like there was a lot of UX Chrome
and a lot of UI built around figuring out how
to invoke uh the the chatbased models sort of in
situ in the right situation in the application.
and a lot of like manual context selection um
tool calling uh LMS plus tool use uh it it's a
really powerful paradigm and often times the the
best interaction we found is just ask the agent
to do it and then refine the feedback loops so
that it's able to get those things done reliably
in terms of tool usage in AMP some of our top uh
tools are provided through MCP servers so our most
popular tools are probably the ones I listed
above there's some local ones like playright
um and Postgress. There's also uh a great tool to
uh integrate web search. Uh so you can either use
uh Anthropics web search API. There's also Brave
web search which is really nice. Uh context 7 is
a popular MCP server that pulls in different
documentation uh corpuses. Uh and of course
linear which I just showed which uh allows you
to do this kind of like issue to PR uh workflow.
Uh and then finally I want to call out Sentry as
being just a really strong MCP server. they really
uh focused in on the quality of the description of
the tools and that ends up being really essential
to making MCP servers work well in practice. Uh
and that actually leads me to one of the pitfalls
that we found in uh integrating MCP servers into
our agent which is um one of the the the the traps
that we see some people fall into is what I like
to call tool magdon. So it's this practice of like
you know MCP MC MCP MCP everyone's excited about
MCP right now. So you just want to go plug in like
two dozen MCP servers each of which provides like
a dozen tools. Um, and that sometimes like when
you think about how it's implemented underneath
the hood, each one of those tool descriptions gets
shoved into the context window and can confuse uh
the model. And the model's always getting better,
but the more irrelevant stuff that goes into
context, the less intelligent it is about making
selection among those tools and uh it is about
sort of like general reasoning and and getting the
job done. And so in terms of how we've baked MCP
into our application architecture, uh in certain
cases, we've actually limited uh the set of tools
that a particular MCP server provides to uh a
smaller subset that we think are really essential
to the workflows that we want to enable. And and
roughly speaking, there's kind of three buckets of
tools we find really useful. There's the ones that
are devoted to finding relevant context. There's
the ones that uh can provide high quality feedback
such as like invoking unit tests or invoking the
compiler. Uh and then finally the ones that are
involved in like submitting uh done or declaring
success like marking the issue as done uh or or
pinging a user to say uh hey I'm ready to uh uh
for for your feedback on this. I also want to talk
a little bit about securing MCP. So that's a high
priority for us given how many of our customers
are in kind of like large scale production code
bases. So the original MCP spec didn't have
anything around O. They've since integrated OOTH 2
as the kind of designated authentication protocol,
which I think was a really smart decision. It's
what we've used in the past to integrate a lot of
external services, but that's just the protocol,
right? There's still the implementation and you
still have to worry about like where you store the
secrets. And I think a lot of what you see in the
wild in terms of how people are integrating MCP
servers. I think the vast majority of tools out
there are still using largely like MCP or standard
IO even uh with the existence of like remote MCP
servers. Uh there someone made like this npm uh
plugin that just converts a remote MCP uh to a
local MCP. So it feels like uh the application
feels like it's still talking over standard IO
uh and it handles the off handshake, but as
a consequence it just like shoves the secrets
uh like your secret tokens to your other services
in some like random plain text directory. Uh and
that's that's kind of like a no-go for a lot of
our customers. And so as part of this handshake,
we actually implemented a secure secret store
where the AMP server takes care of the OOTH
handshake and it proxies the MCP connection
from the client to these external services
and ensures that no secret ever gets stored
unencrypted uh on your local machine. Okay,
in the last couple minutes I just want to you
know take take some time and speculate about
where the future is headed. So there's been
a lot of like great talk at this conference
about you know what's next after tool calling.
Tool calling is such a powerful paradigm. Uh,
one of the things that we think a lot about is,
you know, the extent to which sub agents can be
the way that a lot of tools are implemented.
So, um, I didn't point this out earlier,
but the way that AMP was actually gathering
context about the the the codebase was actually
a sub agent. It wasn't just a deterministic uh,
search tool. It was actually like its own mini
agent that's going in and invoking different uh
low-level search tools and iterating on itself,
reasoning about the context of gatherers, refining
queries uh to to gather the appropriate context.
And we found that approach works just super super
well. And uh I think the the uh the potential for
sub agents to become really good tools were
we're only scratching the surface right now.
Um there's also this notion of like you know what
does it mean to dynamically synthesize a tool and
I think uh we touched upon this in some of the
earlier talks when we were talking about code
execution. So uh right now the the tool calling
paradigm is largely you have a static list of
tools and the model will go and invoke each one
one by one look at the output and then decide
what to do next. Um, a lot of people, not just
us, have pointed out, hey, it might be useful
if we incorporated a notion of output schema into
MCP, which, you know, that just got merged in. Uh,
and then the model can sort of like plan out
how to invoke these tools and compose them and
chain them in different ways. And if you squint
at some point, you're basically programming,
right? Like you have these functions, you have
these tools, you're composing them, uh, you're
combining them in interesting ways. And so, uh,
I think it's it's a really good time to revisit,
uh, code interp code interpreters. um which was
a thing that you know at first was a thing in in
2023 but uh sort of went away for a little bit.
I think with the advent of tool calling agents
there's a lot more potential to explore there
and something that we're actively considering as
well. I was talking with uh David from Enthropic
earlier this week. He stopped by our office and
we're talking about a lot of the parallels
between uh tool calling LLMs and agents and
uh the kind of discourse that uh was active when
highle programming languages first became a thing.
So before you know programming languages settled
on uh you know the the the abstractions that kind
of dominate today there's a lot of discussion
around like what's the proper abstraction for a
subruine is it a function is it message passing
uh do uh is there a way to manage concurrent
communication uh effectively there's different
models for that and I think we're just going to
revisit all of that now because the analogies to
uh you know programming languages now with you
know agents and sub aents and how they interact
with each other and also with deterministic
systems uh it's just very strong and then the last
point here is um I think the way that most people
integrate MCP right now if you look at the part
of the spec that the vast majority of MCP clients
implement versus the protocol itself the entire
protocol I think the protocol designers here were
very very forward thinking there is a lot baked
into the protocol like stateful session management
two-way communication um and uh sampling which
is when the MCP server calls the client to do
LM inference that's frankly just not being used.
Like the vast majority of MCP connections right
now are stateless uh tool calls that don't
even take advantage of streaming. Uh and so
this is such early days like we're we're literally
scratching the tip of the iceberg for what we can
do with tool calling uh LLM and and tools provided
through the model context protocol. And uh I don't
know the next year I think it's it's going to get
really weird. Um so I I guess you know we're super
excited to be here today. Uh it's been a great
partnership uh with Enthropic uh for the past
I'd say uh almost like three years now. I think
we're one of the earliest adopters of Claude for
coding purposes. I think we we started using it in
January 2023. It's been an amazing journey. Um and
we're we're trying to build AMP from the ground
up into this kind of like tool calling native
uh coding agent. And so if that's of interest
of you, check us out. and uh we look forward
to all the things that people kind of build on
top of it, build with it. Uh and also a lot of
the MCP servers that people will build that we
can then integrate. So if you're doing that,
please get in touch with us as well. We'd love to
hear from you and figure out how this can fit into
the kind of new way of doing software development
that we're all discovering together. That do I
have time for questions or one question? Any
questions? I'll kick us off. Um you have source
Kodi as well. So how are you thinking about Kodi
and AMP uh playing together? Yeah, that's a great
question. So um our we we also have this AI coding
assistant called Kodi that was one of the first
uh rag chat uh contextaware uh coding assistants.
Recall the earlier picture where it was kind of
like the three eras of AI. I think Kodi was close
to uh Cody was an awesome AI application built for
the rag chat era of models and I think there's
still a lot of organizations that will find a
lot of value from that paradigm and still a lot
of workflows that can benefit from that. Um,
but because the underlying assumptions
of what LLMs can do have changed so much,
we think that the best uh sort of like user
experience for the agentic world is going to come
from an application that was designed from the
ground up to take advantage of uh tool calling in
MCP. And that's why we built AMP as a separate uh
sort of like application and thing uh from Kodi.
And if I'm being like a little bit snarky, I think
like if you're not rethinking that architecture,
I think as an application developer, you're at
risk of falling behind and missing the kind of
like next wave of AI development. All right,
I think that's my time. Thank you so much.